# COMMAND LINE MANUAL

## Context free languages tests

* Check if two context free grammars are equivalent.

```
APP --compare cfg cfg FILE FILE
```

* Check if two context free grammars are equivalent. If are different it searches a counterexample, a word that can be generated by only one of them.

```
APP --counterexample FILE FILE
```

* Check if two context free grammars are equivalent. If are different it searches some counterexamples, words that can be generated by only one of them.

```
APP --counterexample FILE FILE -many
APP --counterexample -many FILE FILE
```

* Check if a context free grammar is ambiguous. A grammar is ambiguous if it can generate al least one word in two or more different ways.

```
APP --ambiguity FILE
```

## Regular languages comparisons

* Check if two deterministic finite automatons are equivalent.

```
APP --compare dfa dfa FILE FILE
```

* Check if a deterministic finite automaton and a nondeterministic finite automaton are equivalent.

```
APP --compare dfa nfa FILE FILE
```

* Check if a deterministic finite automaton and a regular expression are equivalent.

```
APP --compare dfa regex FILE FILE
```

* Check if a nondeterministic finite automaton and a deterministic finite automaton are equivalent.

```
APP --compare nfa dfa FILE FILE
```

* Check if two nondeterministic finite automatons are equivalent.

```
APP --compare nfa nfa FILE FILE
```

* Check if a nondeterministic finite automaton and a regular expression are equivalent.

```
APP --compare nfa regex FILE FILE
```

* Check if a regular expression and a deterministic finite automaton are equivalent.

```
APP --compare regex dfa FILE FILE
```

* Check if a regular expression and a nondeterministic finite automaton are equivalent.

```
APP --compare regex nfa FILE FILE
```

* Check if two regular expressions are equivalent.

```
APP --compare regex regex FILE FILE
```

## Regular languages transformations

* Transform a deterministic finite automaton to a nondeterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --transform dfa nfa FILE
```

* Transform a deterministic finite automaton to a regular expression.

```
APP --transform dfa regex FILE
```

* Transform a nondeterministic finite automaton to a deterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --transform nfa dfa FILE
```

* Transform a nondeterministic finite automaton to a deterministic finite automaton minimized.

```
APP --transform nfa dfa FILE -minimized
APP --transform -minimized nfa dfa FILE
```

* Transform a nondeterministic finite automaton to a regular expression.

```
APP --transform nfa regex FILE
```

* Transform a regular expression to a deterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --transform regex dfa FILE
```

* Transform a regular expression to a deterministic finite automaton minimized.

```
APP --transform regex dfa FILE -minimized
APP --transform -minimized regex dfa FILE
```

* Transform a regular expression to a nondeterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --transform regex nfa FILE
```

* Transform a regular expression to a nondeterministic finite automaton minimized.

```
APP --transform regex nfa FILE -minimized
APP --transform -minimized regex nfa FILE
```

* Transform a deterministic finite automaton to a context free grammar.

```
APP --transform dfa cfg FILE
```

* Transform a nondeterministic finite automaton to a context free grammar.

```
APP --transform nfa cfg FILE
```

* Transform a regular expression to a context free grammar.

```
APP --transform regex cfg FILE
```

## Check words

The second FILE is a list of words. Each word is a line of the file.

* Test if a list of words are accepted by a deterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --checkwords dfa FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words are accepted by a deterministic finite automaton. Write the accepted words.

```
APP --checkwords dfa FILE FILE -y
APP --checkwords -y dfa FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words are accepted by a deterministic finite automaton. Write the rejected words.

```
APP --checkwords dfa FILE FILE -n
APP --checkwords -n dfa FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words are accepted by a nondeterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --checkwords nfa FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words are accepted by a nondeterministic finite automaton. Write the accepted words.

```
APP --checkwords nfa FILE FILE -y
APP --checkwords -y nfa FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words are accepted by a nondeterministic finite automaton. Write the rejected words.

```
APP --checkwords nfa FILE FILE -n
APP --checkwords -n nfa FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words can be generated by a regular expression.

```
APP --checkwords regex FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words can be generated by a regular expression. Write the accepted words.

```
APP --checkwords regex FILE FILE -y
APP --checkwords -y regex FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words can be generated by a regular expression. Write the rejected words.

```
APP --checkwords regex FILE FILE -n
APP --checkwords -n regex FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words can be generated by a context free grammar.

```
APP --checkwords cfg FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words can be generated by a context free grammar. Write the accepted words.

```
APP --checkwords cfg FILE FILE -y
APP --checkwords -y cfg FILE FILE
```

* Test if a list of words can be generated by a context free grammar. Write the rejected words.

```
APP --checkwords cfg FILE FILE -n
APP --checkwords -n cfg FILE FILE
```

## Generate words

* Generate a list of 100 words (max) that are accepted by a deterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --generatewords dfa FILE
```

* Generate a list of SIZE words (max) that are accepted by a deterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --generatewords dfa FILE SIZE
```

* Generate a list of 100 words (max) that are accepted by a nondeterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --generatewords nfa FILE
```

* Generate a list of SIZE words (max) that are accepted by a nondeterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --generatewords nfa FILE SIZE
```

* Generate a list of 100 words (max) from a regular expression.

```
APP --generatewords regex FILE
```

* Generate a list of SIZE words (max) from a regular expression.

```
APP --generatewords regex FILE SIZE
```

* Generate a list of 100 words (max) from a context free grammar.

```
APP --generatewords cfg FILE
```

* Generate a list of SIZE words (max) from a context free grammar.

```
APP --generatewords cfg FILE SIZE
```

## DFA transformations

* Minimize a deterministic finite automaton.

```
APP --build dfa minimize FILE
```

* Make the reverse of a deterministic finite automaton. The result is a nondeterministic finite automaton that accepts the same words as the original but reversed.

```
APP --build dfa reverse FILE
```

* Make the complement of a deterministic finite automaton. The result is a deterministic finite automaton that accepts the words that the original doesn't accept.

```
APP --build dfa complement FILE
```

## CFG transformations

* Simplify a context free grammar. Remove non derivable rules, non reachable rules, empty rules and unit rules.

```
APP --build cfg simplify FILE
```

* Transform a context free grammar to the chomsky form. On chomsky form, every rule is "A -> BC" or "A -> a".

```
APP --build cfg chomsky FILE
```

* Transform a context free grammar to the greibach form. On greibach form, every derivation starts with a terminal.

```
APP --build cfg greibach FILE
```

## Other

* Writes a help message.

```
APP --help
```

* Open the graphic user interface.

```
APP
APP --gui
```
